CCAT-25262

Fleet - Update Product Model to include revised Optional AB coverages. The optional accident benefit coverage options will continue to be offered at a policy level. This applies to both Fleet bulk and scheduled

Key details
Change type

Add option
Description

Update Product Model to include revised Optional AB coverages. The optional accident benefit coverage options will continue to be offered at a policy level.

Products Applicable - Fleet Bulk/ Schedule
Province applicable - ON

Given a Commercial Auto underwriter is updating the “policy level coverages” within a submission,
When they navigate to the “Policy coverages” ,
Then they should have the ability to view and modify the “Optional Accident Benefit” coverage as specified in the product model.

Note - When filtering Column I by Jira story number 25262, all changes highlighted in yellow must be clearly visible in UI. (Refer Column I, Column K, Column O, T, AB, AT, AV)

AC1) The coverage category name must display as “Optional Accident Benefit” on the UI. Coverages and coverage terms must be configured according to the product model specifications.

AC2) Display the 3 Bundle options as mentioned below as 'Coverage' under Product Model (Column K).

Bundle 1- Home Care + Death + Funeral + Other Expenses Bundle
Bundle 2- Driver + Caregiver Bundle 
Bundle 3- Enhanced Bundle 

AC2) New coverages introduced in the product model, as mentioned below, will only apply if the policy term’s effective date is on or after (>=) July 1, 2026 (Refer Column AT for availability rule )
1) Non-Earner Benefit
2) Caregiver Benefit 
3) Lost Education Expenses
4) Expenses of Visitors 
5) Housekeeping & Home Maintenance
6) Damage to Clothing, Glasses, Hearing Aids, etc. Damage to Personal Items
7) Death Benefit 
 8) Funeral Benefit
9) Income Replacement (Cov term option 400)

AC4)  Existing coverages introduced in the product model, as mentioned below, will .expire if the policy term effective date is on or after (>=) July 1, 2026 (Refer Column AT for availability rule )

1) Caregiver, Housekeeping & Home Maintenance
2) Death & Funeral

AC5) Existing coverages - No Change 
1) Medical, Rehabilitation and Attendant Care Benefit
2) Catastrophic Impairment Benefit (additional $1 Million)
3) Dependent Care
4) Indexation Benefit

AC6) Condition OPCF 47 (Agreement not to Rely on SABS Priority of Payment Rules) must be expired if policy term effective date is on or after (>=) July 1, 2026 under “Exclusions & Conditions

AC7) OPCF 47 R (Optional accident benefits coverage & priority of payment) must be attached if the policy term effective date is on or after (>=)July 1, 2026 under “Exclusions & Conditions (mapping and inference of 47R would be handled separately in the Forms Story)


A illustration on current and proposed AB.


S. No. 

Existing AB

Proposed AB

1

Income Replacement

Medical, Rehabilitation and Attendant Care -

2

Caregiver, Housekeeping & Home Maintenance

Catastrophic Impairment Benefit (additional $1 Million)

3

Medical, Rehabilitation and Attendant Care Benefit

Income Replacement

4

Catastrophic Impairment Benefit (additional $1 Million)

Non-Earner Benefit

5

Death & Funeral

Caregiver Benefit

6

Dependent Care

Lost Educational Expenses

7

Indexation Benefit

Dependent Care

8

 

Expenses of Visitors

9

 

Housekeeping and Home Maintenance

10

 

 Damage to Clothing, Glasses, Hearing Aids, etc. Damage to Personal Items

11

 

Death Benefit

12

 

Funeral Benefit

13

 

Indexation Benefit

Example scenarios- 

Policy Type

Policy Effective Date

Insured Action

Coverage Outcome & Process

New Business

Before July 1, 2026

Insured to pick their coverage and limit based on Old Accident Benefits coverage

Old Standard and Optional Accident Benefits applies

On/After July 1, 2026

Insured to pick their coverage and limit based on new Accident Benefits coverage

New Standard and Optional Accident Benefits applies

Renewal

Before July 1, 2026

No action required

Coverage remain as Old Standard and Optional Accident Benefits

On/After July 1, 2026

Opt out/change

New Standard Accident Benefits, plus any selected Optional coverages

No response

Existing coverage and limits continue; New Standard Accident Benefits plus the Optional coverage that were carved out from the previous Standard Accident Benefits (e.g. Income replacement of $400)

Policy Change

Before July 1, 2026

Policy issuance =Old AB, Mid term 
If New AB is needed, 

 Cancel  -> New Policy effective >=July 1st 2026

On/After July 1, 2026

Policy issuance =New AB, 



 Mid term = Change coverage

 

 

 

 Commercial Auto_Product Model and LOB Mapping_Fleet & IRCA ON AB QC.xlsx”

 

Note - We are using the same coverage category with the new label for all Coverages.

So Effective July 1st 2026, Optional coverage -> Optional Accident Benefits. The tab label will change for all policies (Old and New)